All right guys from this video we're going to talk about javascript variables arrays and objects.
But before we get into that I want to show you of the different ways that we can output data using javascript.
So we have just an index each team on file with our basic age team structure.
And what we're going to do is in the body we're going to go down to the bottom right above the ending
body tag and put in a script tag.
All right.
And in here we can put in line we can put our javascript.
All right so you just want to show you the different ways that we can output.
So what we'll be mostly using is console thought long.
And what that will do is it will log whatever we want to the console.
So let's just say hello world.
And save it.
And then if we run this in the browser you won't see anything here but if you hit the F 12 I know it's
12 and Chrome and Firefox is really the only two browsers I use but I know that IP and Safari also have
tools that you can use.
All right and you can see that if you make sure you click the console tab and it's giving us hello world.
OK.
So whenever we log out in the console show down here.
So that's that's what we'll be using for the most part.
But there are some other things we can do.
We could use document Daut right.
OK.
So right.
Is a method that we can run from the document object and whatever we put in here.
Let's go ahead and save it or you load and that will output on the screen K wherever we put the script
tags.
So if we were to say up here for the right test and down here or a testing or you load you can see that
hello world is in the middle of those two.
So wherever we were to put the script tags but this isn't really a good way to output data.
You don't want to have script tags all over the place.
All right.
But you can do that.
Another way that we can output data is through an alert case so we have the window object and then that
has an alert method or function say hello world.
You load and you can see we get this pop up this alert box with Hello world.
All right.
And you don't and you actually don't even need to use Window Daut.
You can just do alert and that will do the same thing.
All right.
And then the last method of output is going to show you is enter aged him.
So with this what we would do is say we have a div we'll give it an idea of test and then down here
we could say document Daut get element by id and the elements IDs test and then we can say Dot enter
each team our equals and then whatever we wanted to say hello world we go on we reload now you can see
wherever we put this did with the idea of test it's going to output Hello world.
All right so those are the main methods of output.
So next thing we're going to do is we want to variables and we touched on variables very very briefly
in the last video.
So what we can do is set a variable with the keyword var.
So if we were to say var X that's going to create a variable called X.
Now if we go on we console dot log x you'll see that it comes up undefined because we didn't we didn't
assign to a value.
So what we can do is say X equals 5 and then when we reload we'll get five.
And Cain of course used to make this a little shorter or we could just say fire x equals 5.
Just like that.
All right.
Now we can also do simple arithmetic.
We save are y equals 10.
And basically we can do some algebra.
So if we console log x plus y that gives us 15 percent.
So those are numbers or integers that we're assigning to those variables.
We can also do strings.
So if we were to say Wajir person equals John Doe and then console log person
we get John Doe.
So this is a string and a string has to be wrapped in quotes and it can be either single or double quotes.
Now let's say we want to use this in a sentence in a string that we cancel logs so say Strober strings
have quotes so say my name is and if we were to go like that you can see we get my name as person and
that's not what we want to make this that an actual variable.
We have to concatenate that onto the string.
So to do that we use a plus sign cash.
And now if we reload and see it says my name is John Doe right now if we want to assign multiple variables
on one line we can do that.
So let's say Vire a equals one and then we can put a comma B equals to see three.
And then if we were to console wad B
reload and you can see we get two.
OK so it saves a little bit of space.
So variables are a pretty simple aspect of Javascript.
So now let's talk about arrays and arrays are basically they allow you to have multiple values within
one variable.
So it's one example here will create a variable called animals and we're going to set that to a set
of square brackets which represents an array and then we're going to put values in Harrell's a dog cat.
And these are strings but of course you could put numbers and say horse.
OK so we have this array of animals and we can actually console log that.
And down here you'll see we have our array.
We put that arrow it'll show us each individual value now we want to target one of these like let's
say we just want cash.
Then we can say console log animals open up a set of brackets put in one reload and I can see we get
it.
All right.
The reason that it's one and not two is because arrays are zero based so this would be 0 1 2.
OK.
And adding to this is also really easy we could say animals and we know that this is the it will be
the third index 0 1 2 3 and set that to let's say count.
All right.
Now if we console don't log the animals you'll see that cow is now included on the end.
Now this is one way to create an array we can also use the the new keyword.
So I'm just going to show you this would be the way I would suggest.
But just to give you an alternate way we could say animals equals new array and then a set of parentheses.
And then we can say dog
cat.
OK we reload.
We get the same thing.
OK so just another way to do it.
But I would suggest doing it this way.
Now another way to add something to an array is to use the push method so we can say animals Daut push
and here will say pig OK.
Now if we console log it you'll see that pig is now added to the end.
So there's a few different ways to do some of these things.
Now this push method is available to us because an array is actually an object.
OK.
Just about everything can be considered an object in javascript so it has its own set of methods and
properties.
OK so this is a method that pushes on to the array.
All right.
Now we also have for instance length which is a property.
So let's say Konsole adult log animals Daut length.
And what that gives us if we reload it see it gives us a 5.
Gives us the number of items in an array so we start out with three.
We added cow which is 4 and then we added pig which is 5 K and other method that's available to us is
sort.
So if we were to paste that in and say animals dog sort.
And that's a method or function so it needs parentheses.
Reload and now you can see that it gives us the array but it's now sorted in alphabetical order.
Now we also have associative arrays where we can actually define the index to be something other than
just a number.
So let me just comment that out and what we'll do here is let's say create var person and we'll set
it to an empty array and then we can add indexes to it.
So we'll save person name we'll save that to John Doe.
OK.
Actually we don't want the var and let's say person page and we'll set that to 35 and then let's say
city
you know set that to New York and that should be in lowercase.
OK so now we have this person this is an associate of array because instead of just using 0 1 2 we're
using actual words.
OK so if we want we can say Konsole dog log and let's just log person.
And now when we reload you can see that each value basically has its own key K.
It's a set of key value pairs.
If we want just the name we can say person
name and reload and we get the name.
So this works pretty much how objects work.
OK and that's what we're going to look at next.
So to create an object let's create one called car and set it to have a list of properties of key value
pairs and they're going to be wrapped this time in curly braces.
All right so we'll say make will be Ford we'll have model
Mustang and year say nineteen sixty four.
All right.
So we now have this car object.
Let's go ahead and console larget
OK we reload and you can see it tells us it's an object.
And it gives us the different fields.
OK.
Just like an associate of Ray.
And if we want to access a certain property we can simply to dot dot make sure you load and we get forward.
OK.
So instead of using the square brackets here like we did with the array we just use Daut.
All right.
Now we can also have an array of objects which is something that that you you probably work with a lot
especially when dealing with different API when you fetch data from a server.
A lot of times it'll come back as Jason syntax which is basically an array of objects.
So let's create a variable called cars and set it to a set of brackets.
And then in these brackets we'll have objects.
OK so I'm just going to grab what we have for here.
Paste that in K so that represents one car and then we'll copy this and actually put a comma there and
then we'll just change this up
say Paula say 19 now 78 this one
say Toyota Camry 2015.
All right so now we want to do is log this
way and then down here you'll see that we get these three objects.
Click on these arrows and that will give us each of the fields.
All right.
So that is an array of objects.
If we want to access certain one we can go ahead and use an index.
Let's say one member there is zero base so this would be one the Chevy reload that gives us the object
if we want to focus in on one of the properties.
Say Daut model and that gives us Impala.
OK so we can easily access any of these objects in their properties.
All right so we're going to stop here for now and I'll see you in the next video.